
## Motivation
- This dataset was created to support the training of a convolutional neural network. The CNN is specialised in classifying images of the cross section of waveguides in terms of the supported electromagnetic modes, that is, the respective Hermite-Gaussian modes. The CNN will help automatising the characterisation of waveguides in photonic chips.
- The dataset was created by Rui Vasconcelos, while employed by Vitrealab GmbH;

 
## Composition
- The dataset contains 8-bit gray scale images of Hermite-Gaussian (HG) electromagnetic modes.
- The dataset is available in two resolutions: 32x32 and 16x16.
- The labels identify the 9 simplest HG modes in order of complexity:
	- M=0 N=0 --> label 0
	- M=0 N=1 --> label 1
	- M=0 N=2 --> label 2
	- M=1 N=0 --> label 3
	- M=1 N=1 --> label 4
	- M=1 N=2 --> label 5
	- M=2 N=0 --> label 6
	- M=2 N=1 --> label 7
	- M=2 N=2 --> label 8
- The images are split in train and test subsets;


## Collection process
-  Lacking actual photographs of waveguides, this dataset was generated by plotting plausible analytical solutions to the expected modes. To simulate real photographs, the plots of the analytic solutions were then arbitrarily shifted, rotated and distorted, producing an extended dataset. The generated images were added gaussian noise with a variance of 0.1. Note that the image intensity range was 0-1. Through this data augmentation strategy, the train dataset with 32x32px images has roughly 10 000 labelled items and the test dataset has 2 000.
-  The dataset was generated on 27.11.2022.
-  For more details, see [1 Generate dataset.ipynb](https://github.com/rfv2021/bayes_opt_cnn/blob/main/1%20Generate%20dataset.ipynb)


## Preprocessing/cleaning/labelling
- Due to the nature of the data generation, no further processing of the data was necessary.


## Uses
- The dataset constitutes a repository of images of Hermite Gaussian modes. It can be used to train neural networks to recognise features of electromagnetic modes, namely symmetry and mode constitution.
- There are no privacy or legal conditions associated with the image dataset.


## Distribution
- The dataset is available through Github and is not intended for public distribution. It can be accessed by those who have the link to access the dataset.
- It is not subject to any copyright or other intellectual property (IP) license.  

## Maintenance
- Currently, the dataset is not regularly maintained. The last modifications were conducted on the 28.11.2022
